This painting depicts the fatal death of Adham Khan, thrown from the Agra palace terrace as a death sentance.
A deep-fueled jealousy of the Ataga Khan, Akbar's top confidant, and a craving for ultimate power begins this tragic story.
Adham Khan and his family were very close to Akbar.
So close in fact, that they considered Adham as Akbar's foster brother.
Adham Khan had a very reputable position not only in the military, but in Akbar's life as well.
Akbar let Adham Khan become close with him and his work. Consequently, Adham grew greedy and sought out more power.
He had become increasingly frustrated with the influence that Shams al-Din Muhammad,
also known as the Ataga Khan, had over Akbar.
The Khan Khanan, Mu'nim Khan, was equally envious and wanted the Ataga Khan gone.
Too cowardly to take actions into his own hands,
Mu'nim Khan hinted to Adham Khan that he should do it himself.
Mu'nim convinced him that if the Ataga Khan was dead, Adham Khan would soon be promoted to the position of Ataga Khan himself.
"Intoxicated by youth and prosperity", Adham Khan and his two accomplices planned to murder the Ataga Khan.
Unfortunately for them, the murder did not go over quietly.
One afternoon they barged into the royal hall during a court day where magnates were meeting.
Full of rage, Adham Khan, dressed in green, stormed towards Ataga Khan, wearing yellow, with his dagger drawn.
The room was full of shock and confusion as Adham threatened his weapon at Shams al-Din Muhammad.
"Why do you stand still?", he cried at his servant Kusham Uzbek.
Kusham obediantly drew his dagger and stabbed the chief sitter on the pillow of auspiciousness
to show the magnates that they were not there to play games.
The Ataga Khan rushed to the door, trying to escape his own assassination,
only to be met by another servant, Khuda Bardi, who struck him twice with his sword, brutally killing him.
Once Adham Khan realized what he had done, he knew his actions would have consequences.
He rushed out of the royal hall to find Akbar, who was resting in his bedchamber upstairs.
Akbar is dressed in brown robes with a translucent shall, giving him an aura-like presence.
He had been warned of the incident downstairs and met Adham Khan at the veranda.
Adham decided that he might as well get rid of Akbar too,
and attempted to grab Akbar by the hands.
To his dismay, he was met by a single blow to the head from the fist of Akbar himself. Adham Khan was knocked out cold.
Akbar sentanced Adham Khan to death right then and there for his reckless and ungrateful behaviour.
He ordered his servants, dressed in red and yellow, bind Adham Khan and throw him off the palace terrace.
Unfortunately for Adham, he survived the first fall.
He was then dragged back up the stairs only to be pushed off again, head first, to his death.
Around the scene on the ground, everyone fled from the palace in fear and despair.
This event revealed Akbar's true character as the ruler.
Akbar proved that he would not make exceptions for anyone, no matter how close they were to him.
Anyone could be punished if they broke the law.
Adham's greedy and power hungry motives ultimately lead to his death and the tarnishing of his good name.